# Digitale Samlinger Solr
Solr configuration files and setup instructions for the Digitale Samlinger project

## Basics
Solr is used for handling search as well as record metadata lookup.
This repository holds Solr configurations for the different collections
represented in Digitale Samlinger.

## Installation
In production, Solr installation, updating, backup etc. is handled by Operations.

For testing, Solr should be installed locally. The local installation runs in SolrCloud mode
and uses the same setup files as production. 

Install Solr, upload Solr-config and create an empty collection with
```
bin/cloud_install.sh
bin/cloud_start.sh
bin/cloud_sync.sh nested-template/conf/ ds-conf ds
```

After this Solr is available at http://localhost:10007/solr/ and can be stopped and started with
```
bin/cloud_stop.sh
bin/cloud_start.sh
```
## Summary solr stuff

The Summary SOLR stuff is good enough for search, but cannot be used for retrieval.

Index sample documents with 

```
solr-summary-records/load.sh
```

If `mods2summary-solr.xsl` is updated, new sample records can be generated by calling

```
solr-summary-records/build.sh
```

If the Solr configuration is changed, force an update with

```
FORCE_CONFIG=true bin/cloud_sync.sh nested-template/conf/ ds-conf ds
```

Clear the collection with 

```
bin/cloud_delete.sh ds
```
## Nested solr stuff

We have all agreed that the Nested solr records are far too complex
for everyday searches in a resource discovery service. We leave them
here, as a documentation. The records works nicely, and is using the
same SOLR schema and configuration as the `summary solr stuff`

Index sample documents with

```
nested-solr-stuff/load.sh
```

If `mods2solr.xml` is updated, new sample records can be generated by calling

```
nested-solr-stuff/build.sh
```

If the Solr configuration is changed, force an update with
```
FORCE_CONFIG=true bin/cloud_sync.sh nested-template/conf/ ds-conf ds-
```

Clear the collection with 
```
bin/cloud_delete.sh ds
```


## Search tips
1. Search for all material geographically with [geo rectangle](https://lucene.apache.org/solr/guide/8_1/spatial-search.html#filtering-by-an-arbitrary-rectangle)  
`curl` ['http://localhost:10007/solr/ds/select?wt=json&q=location_coordinates:\[54.0,9.0+TO+59.0,12.0\]&fl=*,\[child\]'](http://localhost:10007/solr/ds/select?wt=json&q=location_coordinates:\[54.0,9.0+TO+59.0,12.0\]&fl=*,\[child\])

2. Search for manuscripts completed early 16th century, e.g., [1500 - 1550]
 `curl`[http://localhost:10007/solr/ds/select?wt=json&q=not_before_date:\[1500 TO *\] AND not_after_date:\[* TO 1550\]&fl=*,\[child\]](http://localhost:10007/solr/ds/select?wt=json&q=not_before_date:\[1500+TO+*\]+AND+not_after_date:\[*+TO+1550\]&fl=*,\[child\])

## Fields
Field names are lowercase and `_` is the separation character.

The fields defined in the different `schema.xml` are sought to be shared as much as possible
 between the different collections. As such, there are three different types of fields. 
 See [the template schema.xml](template/conf/schema.xml) for details.

### Mandatory fields
Must be in all documents. There are only 3 mandatory fields that needs to be provided:
`id`, `type` and `collection`.

## Common fields
Common fields are the fields that are used in different collections in the same way.
Simple examples are `title`, `keyword` and `width_pixels`. Common fields are defined
the same way for all collections and are preferred over collection-specific fields:
Although `width_pixels` only currently makes sense for the image collection, it could
concievably be used for an upcoming newspaper collection and is thus a common field.

### Collection specific fields
Fields that are expected only to be used for the given collection. This could be
`newspaper_edition` or `cumulus_preservation_status_enumeration`. Preferably the
collection specific fields should be prefixed to indicate where they belong.

When writing the documentation for a collection specific field (as an XML comment
above the field definition), do state the source field, e.g. _"Corresponds to
 Preservation_statusenumeration in KB-Cumulus."_ 


## Principles
Be generous with indexing: Solr is the primary metadata delivery mechanism, so it should be
possible to get all relevant metadata for a given material from a Solr document lookup. 

## MoreLikeThis
To get results from solr for content similar to search word, send a query to solr with mlt=true. For example, to search for entries that have “Vilhelm” in their “keyword" and "title” field, we use the following:
 curl "http://localhost:10007/solr/ds/select?q=Vilhelm&mlt=true&mlt.fl=keyword,title"
In this example, solr returns all entries that have "Vilhelm" in their "keyword" and "title" field
